The topic is overflow.
This is just a concept and this is a very useful concept for interviews. In interviews they may ask
questions directly upon overflow or questions they may frame depending on overflow under the general
topic not just a to C++ in every programming language.
This concept applies before  understanding over-flow we have to revise few concepts that we have studied
in previous videos.
Then I'm explaining what does it mean by over-flow.
So far that I have taken an example here I have a character type variable and X is having value 127
how many bytes character takes.
It takes one bite one bite means 8 bit.
So this is one bite and I'm showing all the bits that is 0 to 7.
This is least significant bit and this is most significant then how data is actually represented in memory.
It is represented in binary form so this number of 127 is stored in binary forms, so how it looks like
in binary form.
This is the conversion from decimal number to binary number.
We have already learn this so I have got the digits as 1 1 1 1 1, seven ones.
So 7 ones and leading bit that is most significant is 0.
So you should be knowing this one that already we have discussed this one I have said that this is signed
bit if it is 0 means No. it's positive.
If it is one means number is negative.
So right now it is zero.
means this is positive and it is positive 127.
Then one more thing we should know what is the range of values that a character can store.
C characters are alphabets we use but we don't write the alphabet in the memory we write ascii codes
for them right.
So what are the range of values it is from minus 128 to 127 so range of character is minus 128
to 127. now coming to the concept.
Let us understand the concept see right.
Now.
The variable is having the largest value possible that is maximum value beyond that.
We cannot have any value in the character type variable if we have it.
Then what happens.
So right now it is 127 I will make it as plus plus x.
If I write this statement then what it will become.
It will try to go to the next value which is not there.
So what happens to the data.
This will become minus 128 when you will try to cross this value beyond this one.
So it will come down to this one and vice versa.
If it is minus 128 and if we try to reduce it decrease it by 1 then it will goto 127.
So it's more like cyclic.
So if you come from 127 beyond that it be minus 128.
And from the site it will go to 127 just like our hand in a clock like this 12'O clock, one, two
three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven.
now if the hand is here.
Then if you move next it would not go to  13 and it will go to 1 and if the hand is here if you move
here it will not go to 0.
That is less than 1 0 but it will come to 12.
So just like cyclic and this cyclic behavior.
So this is called as overflow.
So when the value is more than the capacity so it will take the values again from the beginning that
is overflow.
Why it happens how magical it takes the values that i will show you here.
See suppose this is the byte and already I have a number here.
Not in this let us add 1 because plus plus means it will increase by 1.
So if it is increased by 1 if one is added to this what will be the result?   one plus one one plus one
is two means one zero in binary form.
So this is zero carry one then again one plus one two.
So this is zero and carry one this is zero carry one, so for all this we get cary one.
Right.
So this is zero.
cary 1 This is zero cary one.
So one two three four five six seven zeros.
And this is one.
So what is this bit sign bit.
So it has became one so it has became negative.
Yes this is a negative number.
But what is the value.
Let us check the value, this is two power zero, two power one.
And this is four, eight, sixteen, thirty two, 64, and one twenty eight.
So yes this is 128.
See the value is 128 and also the same bit does acting as a sign bit so it is minus 128 indeed.
So this is minus one twenty eight see magical it has came to minus 128, we were at
the 127 then we tried to go to the next value and it has came down to the beginning of the range that
is minus 128.
Now one more thing actually the number that we got is in two's compliment because negative numbers are
stored in two complement it is in  twos complements so if I want to get the original number then again
I should find out it's twos complement but in this case I get back the same number you can do it by yourself
find two's complement you'll get back same thing again.
So I'm not doing it directly I'm showing you that it's minus 128.
No let us display this value and check it so if I write to see out X if I write X it will display a
symbol that is character symbol like for this one there is minus 128 it will get some junk
character will appear I want numeric value that is minus 128 so typecast it as integer and display it
so integer of x no you can see minus one twenty eight on display on the screen so that's all this is
the topic of overflow. I have shown it only for the character but it same thing applies on
integer also a long integer also it's the same thing.
So there is a demo available in the next video you can see the demo the same thing I will demonstrate
and show you there are no programs we don't use it in the program just as a concept.
Okay so that's all in the video.